Create collection maintainer's guide (#76976)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/community/maintainers_workflow.rst

.. _maintainers_workflow:

Backporting and Ansible inclusion
==================================

> Each collection community can set its own rules and workflow for managing pull requests, bug reports, documentation issues, and feature requests, as well as adding and replacing maintainers. Maintainers review and merge pull requests following the :ref:`code_of_conduct`, :ref:`maintainer_requirements`, and the :ref:`Committer guidelines <committer_general_rules>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each collection community can set its own rules and workflow for managing pull requests, bug reports, documentation issues, and feature requests, as well as adding and replacing maintainers. Maintainers review and merge pull requests following the :ref:`code_of_conduct`, :ref:`maintainer_requirements`, and the :ref:`Committer guidelines <committer_general_rules>`.
```

We should not forget to add to this statement a link to https://github.com/ansible/community-docs/blob/main/review_checklist.rst later

.. _maintainers_workflow:

.. _Releasing:

Releasing collections
======================

Collection maintainers release all supported stable versions of the collections regularly,
provided that there have been enough changes merged to release.

Generally, releasing in the collections consists of:

1. Planning and announcement.
2. Generating a changelog.
3. Creating a release git tag and pushing it.
4. Automatic publishing the release tarball on `Ansible Galaxy <https://galaxy.ansible.com/>`_ by `Zuul <https://dashboard.zuul.ansible.com/t/ansible/builds?pipeline=release>`_.
5. Final announcement.

Backporting and Ansible inclusion
==================================

Each collection community can set its own rules and workflow for managing pull requests, bug reports, documentation issues, and feature requests, as well as adding and replacing maintainers. Maintainers review and merge pull requests following the:

* :ref:`code_of_conduct`
* :ref:`maintainer_requirements`
* :ref:`Committer guidelines <committer_general_rules>`.
* `PR review checklist <https://github.com/ansible/community-docs/blob/main/review_checklist.rst>`_

> There can be two kinds of maintainers: :ref:`collection_maintainers` and :ref:`module_maintainers`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two kinds of maintainers: :ref:`collection_maintainers` and :ref:`module_maintainers`.
```

.. _collection_maintainers:

Collection maintainers
----------------------

> Collection-scope maintainers are contributors who have the ``write`` or higher access level in a collection. They have the commit right and can merge pull requests among other permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Collection-scope maintainers are contributors who have the ``write`` or higher access level in a collection. They have commit rights and can merge pull requests, among other permissions.
```

When a collection maintainer considers a contribution to a file significant enough

> (it can be, for example, fixing a complex bug, adding a feature, providing regular reviews, and so on),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(for example, fixing a complex bug, adding a feature, providing regular reviews, and so on),
```

> they can offer the author to become a module maintainer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
they can invite the author to become a module maintainer.
```

Module maintainers have indirect commit rights implemented through the `collection bot <https://github.com/ansible-community/collection_bot>`_.
When two module maintainers comment with the keywords ``shipit``, ``LGTM``, or ``+1`` on a pull request
which changes a module they maintain, the collection bot merges the pull request automatically.

For more information about the collection bot and its interface,
see to the `Collection bot overview <https://github.com/ansible-community/collection_bot/blob/main/ISSUE_HELP.md>`_.

.. _Backporting:

Backporting
------------

Collection maintainers backport merged pull requests to stable branches
following the `semantic versioning <https://semver.org/>`_ and release policies of the collections.

> The manual backport process is similar to the :ref: `ansible-core backporting guidelines <backport_process>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The manual backport process is similar to the :ref:`ansible-core backporting guidelines <backport_process>`.
```

For convenience, backporting can be implemented automatically using GitHub bots (for example, with the `Patchback app <https://github.com/apps/patchback>`_) and labeling as it is done in `community.general <https://github.com/ansible-collections/community.general>`_ and `community.network <https://github.com/ansible-collections/community.network>`_.

Inclusion in Ansible
----------------------

> If a collection is not included in Ansible (not shipped with Ansible package), maintainers can submit the collection for inclusion by creating a discussion under `ansible-collections/ansible-inclusion repository <https://github.com/ansible-collections/ansible-inclusion>`_. For more information, see the `repository's README <https://github.com/ansible-collections/ansible-inclusion/blob/main/README.md>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a collection is not included in Ansible (not shipped with Ansible package), maintainers can submit the collection for inclusion by creating an issue in the `ansible-collections/ansible-inclusion repository <https://github.com/ansible-collections/ansible-inclusion>`_. For more information, see the `repository's README <https://github.com/ansible-collections/ansible-inclusion/blob/main/README.md>`_.
```

> If a collection is not included in Ansible (not shipped with Ansible package), maintainers can submit the collection for inclusion by creating a discussion under `ansible-collections/ansible-inclusion repository <https://github.com/ansible-collections/ansible-inclusion>`_. For more information, see the `repository's README <https://github.com/ansible-collections/ansible-inclusion/blob/main/README.md>`_.

Author: didn't commit this suggestion because it is actually github discussions used for this, not an issue.

Stepping down as a collection maintainer
===========================================

Times change, and so may your ability to continue as a collection maintainer. We ask that you do not step down silently.

If you feel you don't have time to maintain your collection any more, you should:

- Inform other maintainers about it.
- If the collection is under the ``ansible-collections`` organization, also inform relevant :ref:`communication_irc`, the ``community`` chat channels on IRC or matrix, or by email ``ansible-community@redhat.com``.
- Look at active contributors in the collection to find new maintainers among them. Discuss the potential candidates with other maintainers or with the community team.

> - If you failed to find a replacement, create a pinned issue in the collection which announces that the collection needs new maintainers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you failed to find a replacement, create a pinned issue in the collection, announcing that the collection needs new maintainers.
```
